doc/source/cli/trove-manage.rst, before:

.. This file is manually generated, unlike many of the other chapters.

================================
trove-manage command-line client
================================

The :command:`trove-manage` client is the command-line interface (CLI)
for the Database Management Utility API and its extensions.

This chapter documents :command:`trove-manage` version ``5.0.1``.

For help on a specific :command:`trove-manage` command, enter:

.. code-block:: console

   $ trove-manage COMMAND --help

.. _trove-manage_command_usage:

trove-manage usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage [-h] [--config-dir DIR] [--config-file PATH] [--debug]
                       [--log-config-append PATH] [--log-date-format DATE_FORMAT]
                       [--log-dir LOG_DIR] [--log-file PATH] [--nodebug]
                       [--nouse-syslog] [--noverbose] [--nowatch-log-file]
                       [--syslog-log-facility SYSLOG_LOG_FACILITY] [--use-syslog]
                       [--verbose] [--version] [--watch-log-file]

                       {db_sync,db_upgrade,db_downgrade,datastore_update,
                       datastore_version_update,db_recreate,
                       db_load_datastore_config_parameters,
                       datastore_version_flavor_add,
                       datastore_version_flavor_delete}
                       ...

.. _trove-manage_command_options:

trove-manage optional arguments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

``--config-dir DIR``
  Path to a config directory to pull ``*.conf`` files from.
  This file set is sorted, so as to provide a predictable parse order
  if individual options are over-ridden. The set is parsed after
  the file(s) specified via previous --config-file,
  arguments hence over-ridden options in the directory take precedence.

``--config-file PATH``
  Path to a config file to use. Multiple config files can be specified,
  with values in later files taking precedence.
  The default files used are: ``None``.

``--debug, -d``
  Print debugging output (set logging level to ``DEBUG``
  instead of default ``INFO`` level).

``--log-config-append PATH, --log_config PATH``
  The name of a logging configuration file.
  This file is appended to any existing logging configuration files.
  For details about logging configuration files, see the Python logging
  module documentation. Note that when logging configuration files are
  used then all logging configuration is set in the configuration file
  and other logging configuration options are ignored (for example,
  ``logging_context_format_string``).

``--log-date-format DATE_FORMAT``
  Format string for ``%(asctime)s`` in log records. Default: ``None``.
  This option is ignored if ``log_config_append`` is set.

``--log-dir LOG_DIR, --logdir LOG_DIR``
  (Optional) The base directory used for relative ``--log-file`` paths.
  This option is ignored if ``log_config_append`` is set.

``--log-file PATH, --logfile PATH``
  (Optional) Name of log file to send logging output to. If no default
  is set, logging will go to stderr as defined by ``use_stderr``.
  This option is ignored if ``log_config_append`` is set.

``--nodebug``
  The inverse of --debug

``--nouse-syslog``
  The inverse of --use-syslog

``--nouse-syslog-rfc-format``
  The inverse of --use-syslog-rfc-format

``--noverbose``
  The inverse of --verbose

``--syslog-log-facility SYSLOG_LOG_FACILITY``
  Syslog facility to receive log lines.
  This option is ignored if ``log_config_append`` is set.

``--use-syslog``
  Use syslog for logging. Existing syslog format is
  **DEPRECATED** and will be changed later to honor RFC5424.
  This option is ignored if ``log_config_append`` is set.

``--verbose, -v``
  If set to false, the logging level will be set to ``WARNING``
  instead of the default ``INFO`` level.

``--version``
  show program's version number and exit

``--watch-log-file``
  Uses logging handler designed to watch file system.
  When log file is moved or removed this handler will open a new log
  file with specified path instantaneously. It makes sense only if
  ``log_file`` option is specified and Linux platform is used.
  This option is ignored if ``log_config_append`` is set.

trove-manage datastore_update
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage datastore_update [-h] datastore_name default_version

Add or update a datastore.
If the datastore already exists, the default version will be updated.

**positional arguments:**

``datastore_name``
  Name of the datastore.

``default_version``
  Name or ID of an existing datastore version to set as the default.
  When adding a new datastore, use an empty string.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

trove-manage datastore_version_flavor_add
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage datastore_version_flavor_add [-h]
                                                    datastore_name
                                                    datastore_version_name
                                                    flavor_ids

**positional arguments:**

``datastore_name``
  Name of the datastore.

``datastore_version_name``
  Name of the datastore version.

``flavor_ids``
  Comma separated list of flavor ids.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

trove-manage datastore_version_flavor_delete
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage datastore_version_flavor_delete [-h]
                                                       datastore_name
                                                       datastore_version_name
                                                       flavor_id

**positional arguments:**

``datastore_name``
  Name of the datastore.

``datastore_version_name``
  Name of the datastore version.

``flavor_id``
  The flavor to be deleted for a given datastore and datastore version.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
        show this help message and exit

trove-manage datastore_version_update
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage datastore_version_update [-h]
                                                datastore version_name manager
                                                image_id packages active

Add or update a datastore version. If the datastore version already exists,
all values except the datastore name and version will be updated.

**positional arguments:**

``datastore``
  Name of the datastore.

``version_name``
  Name of the datastore version.

``manager``
  Name of the manager that will administer the datastore version.

``image_id``
  ID of the image used to create an instance of the datastore version.

``packages``
  Packages required by the datastore version that are installed on
  the guest image.

``active``
  Whether the datastore version is active or not.
  Accepted values are ``0`` and ``1``.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

trove-manage db_downgrade
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage db_downgrade [-h] [--repo_path REPO_PATH] version

Downgrade the database to the specified version.

**positional arguments:**

``version``
  Target version.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

``--repo_path REPO_PATH``
  SQLAlchemy Migrate repository path.

trove-manage db_load_datastore_config_parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage db_load_datastore_config_parameters [-h]
                                                           datastore
                                                           datastore_version
                                                           config_file_location

Loads configuration group parameter validation rules for a datastore version
into the database.

**positional arguments:**

``datastore``
  Name of the datastore.

``datastore_version``
  Name of the datastore version.

``config_file_location``
  Fully qualified file path to the configuration group
  parameter validation rules.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

trove-manage db_recreate
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage db_recreate [-h] [--repo_path REPO_PATH]

Drop the database and recreate it.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

``--repo_path REPO_PATH``
  SQLAlchemy Migrate repository path.

trove-manage db_sync
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage db_sync [-h] [--repo_path REPO_PATH]

Populate the database structure

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

``--repo_path REPO_PATH``
  SQLAlchemy Migrate repository path.

trove-manage db_upgrade
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage db_upgrade [-h] [--version VERSION]
                                  [--repo_path REPO_PATH]

Upgrade the database to the specified version.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

``--version VERSION``
  Target version. Defaults to the latest version.

``--repo_path REPO_PATH``
  SQLAlchemy Migrate repository path.

Commit message:

Image tags support in datastore version
Change-Id: I0e51d08515c121e3a7b0e82b6e4c4161bb4fbc4a

doc/source/cli/trove-manage.rst, after:

.. This file is manually generated, unlike many of the other chapters.

================================
trove-manage command-line client
================================

The :command:`trove-manage` client is the command-line interface (CLI)
for the Database Management Utility API and its extensions.

This chapter documents :command:`trove-manage` version ``5.0.1``.

For help on a specific :command:`trove-manage` command, enter:

.. code-block:: console

   $ trove-manage COMMAND --help

.. _trove-manage_command_usage:

trove-manage usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage [-h] [--config-dir DIR] [--config-file PATH] [--debug]
                       [--log-config-append PATH] [--log-date-format DATE_FORMAT]
                       [--log-dir LOG_DIR] [--log-file PATH] [--nodebug]
                       [--nouse-syslog] [--noverbose] [--nowatch-log-file]
                       [--syslog-log-facility SYSLOG_LOG_FACILITY] [--use-syslog]
                       [--verbose] [--version] [--watch-log-file]

                       {db_sync,db_upgrade,db_downgrade,datastore_update,
                       datastore_version_update,db_recreate,
                       db_load_datastore_config_parameters,
                       datastore_version_flavor_add,
                       datastore_version_flavor_delete}
                       ...

.. _trove-manage_command_options:

trove-manage optional arguments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

``--config-dir DIR``
  Path to a config directory to pull ``*.conf`` files from.
  This file set is sorted, so as to provide a predictable parse order
  if individual options are over-ridden. The set is parsed after
  the file(s) specified via previous --config-file,
  arguments hence over-ridden options in the directory take precedence.

``--config-file PATH``
  Path to a config file to use. Multiple config files can be specified,
  with values in later files taking precedence.
  The default files used are: ``None``.

``--debug, -d``
  Print debugging output (set logging level to ``DEBUG``
  instead of default ``INFO`` level).

``--log-config-append PATH, --log_config PATH``
  The name of a logging configuration file.
  This file is appended to any existing logging configuration files.
  For details about logging configuration files, see the Python logging
  module documentation. Note that when logging configuration files are
  used then all logging configuration is set in the configuration file
  and other logging configuration options are ignored (for example,
  ``logging_context_format_string``).

``--log-date-format DATE_FORMAT``
  Format string for ``%(asctime)s`` in log records. Default: ``None``.
  This option is ignored if ``log_config_append`` is set.

``--log-dir LOG_DIR, --logdir LOG_DIR``
  (Optional) The base directory used for relative ``--log-file`` paths.
  This option is ignored if ``log_config_append`` is set.

``--log-file PATH, --logfile PATH``
  (Optional) Name of log file to send logging output to. If no default
  is set, logging will go to stderr as defined by ``use_stderr``.
  This option is ignored if ``log_config_append`` is set.

``--nodebug``
  The inverse of --debug

``--nouse-syslog``
  The inverse of --use-syslog

``--nouse-syslog-rfc-format``
  The inverse of --use-syslog-rfc-format

``--noverbose``
  The inverse of --verbose

``--syslog-log-facility SYSLOG_LOG_FACILITY``
  Syslog facility to receive log lines.
  This option is ignored if ``log_config_append`` is set.

``--use-syslog``
  Use syslog for logging. Existing syslog format is
  **DEPRECATED** and will be changed later to honor RFC5424.
  This option is ignored if ``log_config_append`` is set.

``--verbose, -v``
  If set to false, the logging level will be set to ``WARNING``
  instead of the default ``INFO`` level.

``--version``
  show program's version number and exit

``--watch-log-file``
  Uses logging handler designed to watch file system.
  When log file is moved or removed this handler will open a new log
  file with specified path instantaneously. It makes sense only if
  ``log_file`` option is specified and Linux platform is used.
  This option is ignored if ``log_config_append`` is set.

trove-manage datastore_update
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage datastore_update [-h] datastore_name default_version

Add or update a datastore.
If the datastore already exists, the default version will be updated.

**positional arguments:**

``datastore_name``
  Name of the datastore.

``default_version``
  Name or ID of an existing datastore version to set as the default.
  When adding a new datastore, use an empty string.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

trove-manage datastore_version_flavor_add
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage datastore_version_flavor_add [-h]
                                                    datastore_name
                                                    datastore_version_name
                                                    flavor_ids

**positional arguments:**

``datastore_name``
  Name of the datastore.

``datastore_version_name``
  Name of the datastore version.

``flavor_ids``
  Comma separated list of flavor ids.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

trove-manage datastore_version_flavor_delete
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage datastore_version_flavor_delete [-h]
                                                       datastore_name
                                                       datastore_version_name
                                                       flavor_id

**positional arguments:**

``datastore_name``
  Name of the datastore.

``datastore_version_name``
  Name of the datastore version.

``flavor_id``
  The flavor to be deleted for a given datastore and datastore version.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
        show this help message and exit

trove-manage datastore_version_update
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage datastore_version_update [-h]
                                                datastore version_name manager
                                                image_id image_tags packages active

Add or update a datastore version. If the datastore version already exists,
all values except the datastore name and version will be updated.

**positional arguments:**

``datastore``
  Name of the datastore.

``version_name``
  Name of the datastore version.

``manager``
  Name of the manager that will administer the datastore version.

``image_id``
  ID of the image used to create an instance of the datastore version.

``image_tags``
  List of image tags separated by comma. If the image ID is not provided
  explicitly, the image can be retrieved by the image tags. Multiple image tags
  are separated by comma, e.g. trove,mysql. Using image tags is more flexible
  than ID especially when new guest image is uploaded to Glance, Trove can pick
  up the latest image automatically for creating instances.

``packages``
  Packages required by the datastore version that are installed on
  the guest image.

``active``
  Whether the datastore version is active or not.
  Accepted values are ``0`` and ``1``.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

trove-manage db_downgrade
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage db_downgrade [-h] [--repo_path REPO_PATH] version

Downgrade the database to the specified version.

**positional arguments:**

``version``
  Target version.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

``--repo_path REPO_PATH``
  SQLAlchemy Migrate repository path.

trove-manage db_load_datastore_config_parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage db_load_datastore_config_parameters [-h]
                                                           datastore
                                                           datastore_version
                                                           config_file_location

Loads configuration group parameter validation rules for a datastore version
into the database.

**positional arguments:**

``datastore``
  Name of the datastore.

``datastore_version``
  Name of the datastore version.

``config_file_location``
  Fully qualified file path to the configuration group
  parameter validation rules.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

trove-manage db_recreate
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage db_recreate [-h] [--repo_path REPO_PATH]

Drop the database and recreate it.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

``--repo_path REPO_PATH``
  SQLAlchemy Migrate repository path.

trove-manage db_sync
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage db_sync [-h] [--repo_path REPO_PATH]

Populate the database structure

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

``--repo_path REPO_PATH``
  SQLAlchemy Migrate repository path.

trove-manage db_upgrade
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   usage: trove-manage db_upgrade [-h] [--version VERSION]
                                  [--repo_path REPO_PATH]

Upgrade the database to the specified version.

**optional arguments:**

``-h, --help``
  show this help message and exit

``--version VERSION``
  Target version. Defaults to the latest version.

``--repo_path REPO_PATH``
  SQLAlchemy Migrate repository path.
