doc/source/index.rst, before:

===========================================
Welcome to Trove's developer documentation!
===========================================

Introduction
============

Trove is Database as a Service for OpenStack. It's designed to run
entirely on OpenStack, with the goal of allowing users to quickly and
easily utilize the features of a relational database without the
burden of handling complex administrative tasks. Cloud users and
database administrators can provision and manage multiple database
instances as needed.

Initially, the service will focus on providing resource isolation at
high performance while automating complex administrative tasks
including deployment, configuration, patching, backups, restores, and
monitoring.

For an in-depth look at the project's design and structure, see the
:doc:`dev/design` page.


Installation And Deployment
===========================

Trove is constantly under development. The easiest way to install
Trove is using the Trove integration scripts that can be found in
git in the `Trove Integration`_ Repository.

For further details on how to install Trove using the integration
scripts please refer to the :doc:`dev/install` page.

For further details on how to install Trove to work with existing
OpenStack environment please refer to the :doc:`dev/manual_install` page.

Developer Resources
===================

For those wishing to develop Trove itself, or to extend Trove's
functionality, the following resources are provided.

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1

  dev/design
  dev/install
  dev/manual_install.rst

* Source Code Repositories

  - `Trove`_
  - `Trove Integration`_
  - `Trove Client`_

* `Trove Wiki`_ on OpenStack
* `Trove API Documentation`_ on docs.openstack.org


Search Trove Documentation
==========================

* :ref:`search`


.. _Trove Wiki: https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Trove
.. _Trove: https://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack/trove
.. _Trove Integration: https://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack/trove-integration
.. _Trove Client: https://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack/python-troveclient
.. _Trove API Documentation: http://developer.openstack.org/api-ref-databases-v1.html

Commit message:

Add short document on building guest images
It has long been felt that we need more (better) documentation on
building guest images. This document is a starting point in that
direction.

Authored-By: Amrith Kumar <amrith@tesora.com>
Co-Authored-By: Peter Stachowski <peter@tesora.com>

Change-Id: I2fe0cd1856778a47f1bfad2b9098a1f98e701f91

doc/source/index.rst, after:

===========================================
Welcome to Trove's developer documentation!
===========================================

Introduction
============

Trove is Database as a Service for OpenStack. It's designed to run
entirely on OpenStack, with the goal of allowing users to quickly and
easily utilize the features of a relational database without the
burden of handling complex administrative tasks. Cloud users and
database administrators can provision and manage multiple database
instances as needed.

Initially, the service will focus on providing resource isolation at
high performance while automating complex administrative tasks
including deployment, configuration, patching, backups, restores, and
monitoring.

For an in-depth look at the project's design and structure, see the
:doc:`dev/design` page.


Installation And Deployment
===========================

Trove is constantly under development. The easiest way to install
Trove is using the Trove integration scripts that can be found in
git in the `Trove Integration`_ Repository.

For further details on how to install Trove using the integration
scripts please refer to the :doc:`dev/install` page.

For further details on how to install Trove to work with existing
OpenStack environment please refer to the :doc:`dev/manual_install` page.

Developer Resources
===================

For those wishing to develop Trove itself, or to extend Trove's
functionality, the following resources are provided.

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1

  dev/design
  dev/install
  dev/manual_install.rst
  dev/building_guest_images.rst

* Source Code Repositories

  - `Trove`_
  - `Trove Integration`_
  - `Trove Client`_

* `Trove Wiki`_ on OpenStack
* `Trove API Documentation`_ on docs.openstack.org


Guest Images
============

In order to use Trove, you need to have Guest Images for each
datastore and version. These images are loaded into Glance and
registered with Trove.

For those wishing to develop guest images, please refer to the
:doc:`dev/building_guest_images.rst` page.


Search Trove Documentation
==========================

* :ref:`search`


.. _Trove Wiki: https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Trove
.. _Trove: https://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack/trove
.. _Trove Integration: https://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack/trove-integration
.. _Trove Client: https://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack/python-troveclient
.. _Trove API Documentation: http://developer.openstack.org/api-ref-databases-v1.html
