integration/README.md, before:

# Trove integration script - trovestack

## Steps to setup environment

Install a fresh Ubuntu 16.04 (xenial) image. We suggest creating a development virtual machine using the image.

1. Login to the machine as root
1. Make sure we have git installed

    ```
    # apt-get update
    # apt-get install git-core -y
    ```

1. Add a user named ubuntu if you do not already have one:

    ```
    # adduser ubuntu
    # visudo
    ```

    Add this line to the file below the root user

        ubuntu  ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL

    Or use this if you dont want to type your password to sudo a command:

        ubuntu  ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL

    if /dev/pts/0 does not have read/write for your user

        # chmod 666 /dev/pts/0

    > Note that this number can change and if you can not connect to the screen session then the /dev/pts/# needs modding like above.

1. Login with ubuntu and download the Trove code.

    ```shell
    # su ubuntu
    $ mkdir -p /opt/stack
    $ cd /opt/stack
    ```

    > Note that it is important that you clone the repository
    here. This is a change from the earlier trove-integration where
    you could clone trove-integration anywhere you wanted (like HOME)
    and trove would get cloned for you in the right place. Since
    trovestack is now in the trove repository, if you wish to test
    changes that you have made to trove, it is advisable for you to
    have your trove repository in /opt/stack to avoid another trove
    repository being cloned for you.

1. Clone this repo and go into the scripts directory
    ```
    $ git clone https://github.com/openstack/trove.git
    $ cd trove/integration/scripts/
    ```

## Running trovestack

Run this to get the command list with a short description of each

    $ ./trovestack

### Install Trove
*This brings up trove services and initializes the trove database.*

    $ ./trovestack install

### Connecting to the screen session

    $ screen -x stack

If that command fails with the error

    Cannot open your terminal '/dev/pts/1'

If that command fails with the error chmod the corresponding /dev/pts/#

    $ chmod 660 /dev/pts/1

### Navigate the log screens
To produce the list of screens that you can scroll through and select

    ctrl+a then "

An example of screen list:
```
..... (full list ommitted)
20 c-vol
21 h-eng
22 h-api
23 h-api-cfn
24 h-api-cw
25 tr-api
26 tr-tmgr
27 tr-cond
```

Alternatively, to go directly to a specific screen window

    ctrl+a then '

then enter a number (like 25) or name (like tr-api)

### Detach from the screen session
Allows the services to continue running in the background

    ctrl+a then d

### Kick start the build/test-init/build-image commands
*Add mysql as a parameter to set build and add the mysql guest image. This will also populate /etc/trove/test.conf with appropriate values for running the integration tests.*

    $ ./trovestack kick-start mysql

### Initialize the test configuration and set up test users (overwrites /etc/trove/test.conf)

    $ ./trovestack test-init

### Build guest agent image
The trove guest agent image could be created using `trovestack` script 
according to the following command:

```shell
PATH_DEVSTACK_OUTPUT=/opt/stack \
  ./trovestack build-image \
  ${datastore_type} \
  ${guest_os} \
  ${guest_os_release} \
  ${dev_mode}
```

- If the script is running as a part of DevStack, the viriable 
  `PATH_DEVSTACK_OUTPUT` is set automatically.
- if `dev_mode=false`, the trove code for guest agent is injected into the 
  image at the building time. Now `dev_mode=false` is still in experimental
  and not considered production ready yet.
- If `dev_mode=true`, the script assumes to be running on the host of 
  trove-taskmanager, otherwise, `CONTROLLER_IP` needs to be specified 
  explicitly.

For example, build a Mysql image for Ubuntu Xenial operating system:

```shell
$ ./trovestack build-image mysql ubuntu xenial false
```

### Running Integration Tests
Check the values in /etc/trove/test.conf in case it has been re-initialized prior to running the tests. For example, from the previous mysql steps:

    "dbaas_datastore": "%datastore_type%",
    "dbaas_datastore_version": "%datastore_version%",

should be:

    "dbaas_datastore": "mysql",
    "dbaas_datastore_version": "5.5",

Once Trove is running on DevStack, you can run the integration tests locally.

    $./trovestack int-tests

This will runs all of the blackbox tests by default. Use the `--group` option to run a different group:

    $./trovestack int-tests --group=simple_blackbox

You can also specify the `TESTS_USE_INSTANCE_ID` environment variable to have the integration tests use an existing instance for the tests rather than creating a new one.

    $./TESTS_DO_NOT_DELETE_INSTANCE=True TESTS_USE_INSTANCE_ID=INSTANCE_UUID ./trovestack int-tests --group=simple_blackbox

## Reset your environment

### Stop all the services running in the screens and refresh the environment

    $ killall -9 screen
    $ screen -wipe
    $ RECLONE=yes ./trovestack install
    $ ./trovestack kick-start mysql

 or

    $ RECLONE=yes ./trovestack install
    $ ./trovestack test-init
    $ ./trovestack build-image mysql

## Recover after reboot
If the VM was restarted, then the process for bringing up Openstack and Trove is quite simple

    $./trovestack start-deps
    $./trovestack start

Use screen to ensure all modules have started without error

    $screen -r stack

## VMware Fusion 5 speed improvement
Running Ubuntu with KVM or Qemu can be extremely slow without certain optimizations. The following are some VMware settings that can improve performance and may also apply to other virtualization platforms.

1. Shutdown the Ubuntu VM.

2. Go to VM Settings -> Processors & Memory -> Advanced Options.
   Check the "Enable hypervisor applications in this virtual machine"

3. Go to VM Settings -> Advanced.
   Set the "Troubleshooting" option to "None"

4. After setting these create a snapshot so that in cases where things break down you can revert to a clean snapshot.

5. Boot up the VM and run the `./trovestack install`

6. To verify that KVM is setup properly after the devstack installation you can run these commands.
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ kvm-ok
INFO: /dev/kvm exists
KVM acceleration can be used
```

## VMware Workstation performance improvements

In recent versions of VMWare, you can get much better performance if you enable the right virtualization options. For example, in VMWare Workstation (found in version 10.0.2), click on VM->Settings->Processor.

You should see a box of "Virtualization Engine" options that can be changed only when the VM is shutdown.

Make sure you check "Virtualize Intel VT-x/EPT or AMD-V/RVI" and "Virtualize CPU performance counters". Set the preferred mode to "Automatic".

Then boot the VM and ensure that the proper virtualization is enabled.

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ kvm-ok
INFO: /dev/kvm exists
KVM acceleration can be used
```

Commit message:

Build reusable Trove guest image for dev
When building the guest image for dev_mode=true, the controller IP
address is injected to the image in order for the guest-agent to
download Trove code during initialization. As a result, we have to build
guest image each time in the Trove CI because the image build relies on
the devstack host IP address.

If we could remove the dependency, we can build the image(in
devmode=true) for a specific datastore once and use that image for all
related CI jobs, which could save some time for Trove CI.

Fix the current CI issue as well.

Change-Id: If23f4f179a6ab72cfb35e4c45d55142fedb76498

integration/README.md, after:

# Trove integration script - trovestack

## Steps to setup environment

Install a fresh Ubuntu 16.04 (xenial) image. We suggest creating a development virtual machine using the image.

1. Login to the machine as root
1. Make sure we have git installed

    ```
    # apt-get update
    # apt-get install git-core -y
    ```

1. Add a user named ubuntu if you do not already have one:

    ```
    # adduser ubuntu
    # visudo
    ```

    Add this line to the file below the root user

        ubuntu  ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL

    Or use this if you dont want to type your password to sudo a command:

        ubuntu  ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL

    if /dev/pts/0 does not have read/write for your user

        # chmod 666 /dev/pts/0

    > Note that this number can change and if you can not connect to the screen session then the /dev/pts/# needs modding like above.

1. Login with ubuntu and download the Trove code.

    ```shell
    # su ubuntu
    $ mkdir -p /opt/stack
    $ cd /opt/stack
    ```

    > Note that it is important that you clone the repository
    here. This is a change from the earlier trove-integration where
    you could clone trove-integration anywhere you wanted (like HOME)
    and trove would get cloned for you in the right place. Since
    trovestack is now in the trove repository, if you wish to test
    changes that you have made to trove, it is advisable for you to
    have your trove repository in /opt/stack to avoid another trove
    repository being cloned for you.

1. Clone this repo and go into the scripts directory
    ```
    $ git clone https://github.com/openstack/trove.git
    $ cd trove/integration/scripts/
    ```

## Running trovestack

Run this to get the command list with a short description of each

    $ ./trovestack

### Install Trove
*This brings up trove services and initializes the trove database.*

    $ ./trovestack install

### Connecting to the screen session

    $ screen -x stack

If that command fails with the error

    Cannot open your terminal '/dev/pts/1'

If that command fails with the error chmod the corresponding /dev/pts/#

    $ chmod 660 /dev/pts/1

### Navigate the log screens
To produce the list of screens that you can scroll through and select

    ctrl+a then "

An example of screen list:
```
..... (full list ommitted)
20 c-vol
21 h-eng
22 h-api
23 h-api-cfn
24 h-api-cw
25 tr-api
26 tr-tmgr
27 tr-cond
```

Alternatively, to go directly to a specific screen window

    ctrl+a then '

then enter a number (like 25) or name (like tr-api)

### Detach from the screen session
Allows the services to continue running in the background

    ctrl+a then d

### Kick start the build/test-init/build-image commands
*Add mysql as a parameter to set build and add the mysql guest image. This will also populate /etc/trove/test.conf with appropriate values for running the integration tests.*

    $ ./trovestack kick-start mysql

### Initialize the test configuration and set up test users (overwrites /etc/trove/test.conf)

    $ ./trovestack test-init

### Build guest agent image
The trove guest agent image could be created using `trovestack` script 
according to the following command:

```shell
PATH_DEVSTACK_OUTPUT=/opt/stack \
  ./trovestack build-image \
  ${datastore_type} \
  ${guest_os} \
  ${guest_os_release} \
  ${dev_mode}
```

- If the script is running as a part of DevStack, the viriable 
  `PATH_DEVSTACK_OUTPUT` is set automatically.
- if `dev_mode=false`, the trove code for guest agent is injected into the 
  image at the building time. Now `dev_mode=false` is still in experimental
  and not considered production ready yet.
- If `dev_mode=true`, no Trove code is injected into the guest image. The guest
  agent will download Trove code during the service initialization.

For example, build a Mysql image for Ubuntu Xenial operating system:

```shell
$ ./trovestack build-image mysql ubuntu xenial false
```

### Running Integration Tests
Check the values in /etc/trove/test.conf in case it has been re-initialized prior to running the tests. For example, from the previous mysql steps:

    "dbaas_datastore": "%datastore_type%",
    "dbaas_datastore_version": "%datastore_version%",

should be:

    "dbaas_datastore": "mysql",
    "dbaas_datastore_version": "5.5",

Once Trove is running on DevStack, you can run the integration tests locally.

    $./trovestack int-tests

This will runs all of the blackbox tests by default. Use the `--group` option to run a different group:

    $./trovestack int-tests --group=simple_blackbox

You can also specify the `TESTS_USE_INSTANCE_ID` environment variable to have the integration tests use an existing instance for the tests rather than creating a new one.

    $./TESTS_DO_NOT_DELETE_INSTANCE=True TESTS_USE_INSTANCE_ID=INSTANCE_UUID ./trovestack int-tests --group=simple_blackbox

## Reset your environment

### Stop all the services running in the screens and refresh the environment

    $ killall -9 screen
    $ screen -wipe
    $ RECLONE=yes ./trovestack install
    $ ./trovestack kick-start mysql

 or

    $ RECLONE=yes ./trovestack install
    $ ./trovestack test-init
    $ ./trovestack build-image mysql

## Recover after reboot
If the VM was restarted, then the process for bringing up Openstack and Trove is quite simple

    $./trovestack start-deps
    $./trovestack start

Use screen to ensure all modules have started without error

    $screen -r stack

## VMware Fusion 5 speed improvement
Running Ubuntu with KVM or Qemu can be extremely slow without certain optimizations. The following are some VMware settings that can improve performance and may also apply to other virtualization platforms.

1. Shutdown the Ubuntu VM.

2. Go to VM Settings -> Processors & Memory -> Advanced Options.
   Check the "Enable hypervisor applications in this virtual machine"

3. Go to VM Settings -> Advanced.
   Set the "Troubleshooting" option to "None"

4. After setting these create a snapshot so that in cases where things break down you can revert to a clean snapshot.

5. Boot up the VM and run the `./trovestack install`

6. To verify that KVM is setup properly after the devstack installation you can run these commands.
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ kvm-ok
INFO: /dev/kvm exists
KVM acceleration can be used
```

## VMware Workstation performance improvements

In recent versions of VMWare, you can get much better performance if you enable the right virtualization options. For example, in VMWare Workstation (found in version 10.0.2), click on VM->Settings->Processor.

You should see a box of "Virtualization Engine" options that can be changed only when the VM is shutdown.

Make sure you check "Virtualize Intel VT-x/EPT or AMD-V/RVI" and "Virtualize CPU performance counters". Set the preferred mode to "Automatic".

Then boot the VM and ensure that the proper virtualization is enabled.

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ kvm-ok
INFO: /dev/kvm exists
KVM acceleration can be used
```
